you know what every species on the
planet needs to adapt to the world
around it to survive
human beings are no exception we didn't
exist millions of years ago
the oldest skeleton of a modern person
ever found is about 196 thousand years
old
but even in this relatively short period
of time our species has evolved a lot
in fact we've never stopped evolving at
least that's what some scientists think
and some of our traits seem to prove it
about 20 000 years ago i wasn't around
then
only children could drink milk without
getting an upset stomach
but then humans domesticated animals
like cows and goats
a new gene developed in people's bodies
down the generations
today about a third of all the world's
population can drink milk in adulthood
in fact this ability actually developed
independently
among different groups of people all
over the planet
our jaws are also not as big as the ones
our extinct relatives had
they got smaller because our soft
processed food is
nothing like the diet of our ancestors
our teeth themselves have become smaller
too
and some have even disappeared
completely plenty of people may never
develop
third molars known as wisdom teeth but
for our ancestors
these teeth were vital third molars
usually develop when someone is 18 to 25
years old
by this time most of our ancestors teeth
had become worn out
so the third molars were possibly
replacements
but some slight changes in human anatomy
may have nothing to do with evolution
for example people have generally gotten
taller
over the past few hundred years the most
likely cause of this is simply better
nutrition
as well as access to modern medical care
and perhaps
basketball but what changes await
humanity in the future
of course nobody can tell for sure but
the experts do have some
interesting theories one possibility is
that we could get shorter
as we adapt to life on our overpopulated
planet
studies have shown that shorter people
consume a lot less energy and resources
than taller people
in the era of hunter-gatherers humans
didn't meet many others in their
day-to-day lives
now people have to adapt to life in
densely populated cities
and who knows may be given enough time
our genes will respond to this change
and reduce the average person's height
another possibility is that more and
more people will look alike
modern humans travel a lot
as different types of people interact
and have children
our genes are becoming more and more
mixed up
in the future this might make some
physical characteristics a lot more
unusual
the average looking person might have
darker skin and hair
and treats like freckles or blue eyes
could become a rarity
some scientists think that evolution
won't play an important role in our
future at all
unlike our ancestors who lived millions
of years ago
we now have a very advanced culture
based on cooperation and modern
technology
so we no longer need to literally
struggle to survive
because of this we may actually stop
developing as a species
and remain pretty much the same far into
the future
if our evolution does continue though
there's a chance we'll become more
complex and
intelligent creatures because of
technological progress
the way we deal with problems could
depend more on our intelligence than our
physical abilities
so our brains might become larger this
may already be happening
i know mine is getting bigger some
scientists measurements show that the
skulls of americans are actually getting
bigger on
average the room in there for the brain
has increased about the size of a tennis
ball
or maybe the opposite will happen and
our brains will shrink
this direction of development has
actually been around for a lot longer
some people think that the male human
brain has been getting smaller for the
past 20
000 years hey just ask females
if it continues to decrease at the same
rate for the next 20
000 it'll end up being the same size as
the brain of an archaic human
who lived about 2 million years ago wait
does that mean we're becoming less
intelligent well a bigger brain
doesn't always mean greater intellect we
just might be evolving to have smaller
but super efficient brains another
theory is that our bodies might learn to
use calories from fast food
things like pizza fries and donuts
contain trans fats
these chemicals are difficult for our
bodies to digest
but what if humans of the future somehow
adapt to this kind of food
if we eat it for long enough after all
the same process has already happened
with milk
in a few thousand years people may
develop genes that can break down trans
fats
and absorb something healthy from them
if they still enjoy eating burgers and
fries of course
mmm donuts people of the future
might have less hair than we do today
hair was vital for our ancestors
it helped regulate their body
temperature keeping them warm in
cold climates and cool in hot
environments
even today we still have practically the
same amount of hair as many apes do
but some scientists have pointed out
that our hair is nowhere as near as
important to our survival
as it once was since we now have modern
heating systems and clothing for any
environment
maybe given enough time will become a
lot less
hairy then they'll be saying eh he
wasn't very fuzzy was he
yet our hair still serves many purposes
our eyelashes protect our eyes from dust
and eyebrows keep them clear of sweat
some experts think the hair on our heads
even helps stabilize the temperature of
the brain so we probably won't become
completely hairless
just a little smoother and now the bad
news
human beings of the future may have
weakened immune systems
and become more vulnerable to illnesses
new medical technology and antibiotics
can improve our health
but there's the risk that they could
make our immune system lazier
and unprepared for fighting infections
over time
many generations down the line it's
possible that the human body
might not be able to withstand even
simple diseases without serious medical
help
today human development isn't determined
by biology alone
technology also plays a role maybe one
day
people will stop waiting for evolution
to give them what they want
and begin to change themselves using
advanced tech
doctors already use artificial devices
to help people with health problems
so who's to say that machinery and
computers
won't be used in the far future to
completely change our physical abilities
our descendants might get different
kinds of brain implants
or it could be that people will be
equipped with artificial eyes with
camera functions
but in this scenario we could also end
up being less
knowledgeable why learn a foreign
language or remember historical dates
when all the world's information has
been downloaded right into your brain
if human beings eventually become a
multi-planet species and colonize mars
our bodies could begin to adapt to life
beyond earth in
interesting ways the contrast between
the environment on earth and the red
planet
is so huge that evolution may actually
speed up
in this case humans could adapt to the
new physical conditions
in as little as 6 000 years or just a
few hundred generations
in the low gravity environment of outer
space or alien worlds
the structure of our muscles could
change we won't need some of them
while others will develop more quickly
the amount of body fat we have may
increase in a cold climate
low temperatures may also make us grow
thick long hair again
our skin may become more pigmented and
therefore
better protected from harmful uv
radiation
and our eyelids might get thicker to
protect our eyes from all the cosmic
rays
outside the earth's atmosphere